---
title: Kuma 2.8 release with MeshExternalService, MeshPassthrough and more...
description: Kuma 2.8 release with MeshExternalService, MeshPassthrough and more...
date: 2024-06-25
headerImage: /assets/images/blog/test-header.jpg
tags:
  - Release
---

We’re excited to announce the release of Kuma 2.8, featuring new and exciting capabilities such as `MeshExternalService`, `MeshPassthrough` policy, along with numerous improvements and groundwork for future developments.

# Notable features
In Kuma 2.8.x external services were fully redesigned with 2 distinct policies:
* `MeshExternalService` which is easier and more flexible than the previous `ExternalService`. 
* `MeshPassthrough` which provides a way to dynamically escape the mesh. This is especially useful, for allowing wildcard domains or when using SaaS providers which already provide their own security.

We believe this level of flexibility will make integrations between what lives inside and outside the mesh very straightforward.

Feel free to check our [release notes](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/releases/tag/2.8.0) for the full list of changes.

## MeshExternalService

Since 2.7.x we've started a strong redesign of how services are defined in Kuma.
We started by introducing [`MeshService`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshservice/) which brings and easier way to define and track a service.
In 2.8.x [`MeshExternalService`](/docs/2.8.x/networking/meshexternalservice/) provides a way to define a service which doesn't run with sidecars.
It's very clearly defined and [`HostnameGenerator`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/networking/hostnamegenerator/) enables you to define how to reach the service.


The following example shows how to expose httpbin as a service inside the mesh accessible through the address `mes-http.svc.meshext.local:80`.

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: HostnameGenerator
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  selector:
    meshExternalService:
      matchLabels:
        kuma.io/origin: zone
  template: "{{ .DisplayName }}.svc.meshext.local"
---
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshExternalService
metadata:
  name: mes-http
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  match:
    type: HostnameGenerator
    port: 80
    protocol: http
  endpoints:
    - address: httpbin.org
      port: 80
```

In the coming releases of Kuma we'll be providing a default `HostnameGenerator` and potential extensions for integrating with complex infrastructure like aws lambda.


## MeshPassthrough

Passthrough enables users to allow traffic to exit the mesh directly at the sidecar.
This feature has existed in Kuma for a long time. However, as we were discussing with users it was becoming clear that it wasn't granular enough.
With the advent of [advanced policy matching](https://kuma.io/docs/dev/policies/targetref/) we realised that it was easy to build a policy that would enable users to specify powerful passthrough rules.
In 2.8 we're excited to finally ship a new policy: [`MeshPassthrough`](https://kuma.io/docs/2.8.x/policies/meshpassthrough/).

Use cases for using passthrough mode are:
- Use SaaS platforms that already provide security and observability (Aiven, Confluent cloud are example of these).
- Traffic internal to the organization that isn't secured by the mesh yet.
- Progressive migration to the Mesh.

These policies are easily composable together as with this example:

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshPassthrough
metadata:
  name: passthrough-mongo
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default 
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
      mongo-allowed: "true" 
  default:
    passthroughMode: Matched
    appendMatch:
    - type: Domain
      value: "*.h80seek.mongodb.net"
      port: 27017
      protocol: tls
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: MeshPassthrough
metadata:
  name: passthrough-confluent
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  targetRef:
    kind: MeshSubset
    tags:
      kafka-allowed: "true"
  default:
    passthroughMode: Matched
    appendMatch:
      - type: Domain
        value: "*.europe-west1.gcp.confluent.cloud"
        port: 9092
        protocol: tls
```

Here depending on the labels on your dataplane proxy you may be able to access directly mongo, confluent cloud or both.

With these two new features we're hoping that migrating existing services to the mesh will become easier.
This is a workflow we're focusing on and we'd love to hear from your experience.

## Upgrading

We strongly suggest upgrading to Kuma 2.8.0. Upgrading is easy through `kumactl` or Helm.

Be sure to carefully read the [upgrade Guide](/docs/2.8.x/production/upgrades-tuning/upgrades/) and the [version specific upgrade notes](/docs/2.8.x/production/upgrades-tuning/upgrade-notes) before upgrading Kuma.

## Join the community!

Join us on our [community channels](/community/), including official Slack chat, to learn more about Kuma.
The community channels are useful for getting up and running with Kuma, as well as for learning how to contribute to and discuss the project roadmap.
Kuma is a CNCF Sandbox project: neutral, open and inclusive.

The community call is hosted [on the second Wednesday of every Month at 8:30am PDT](/community/).
And don't forget to follow Kuma [on Twitter](https://twitter.com/kumamesh) and star it [on GitHub](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma)!
