---
title: Configure zone proxy authentication
content_type: how-to
description: Configure authentication for zone proxies using service account tokens or zone tokens for secure control plane communication.
keywords:
  - authentication
  - zone token
  - security
---

To obtain a configuration from the control plane, a zone proxy (zone ingress / zone egress) must
authenticate itself.
There are several authentication methods available.

## Service Account Token

On Kubernetes, A zone proxy proves its identity by leveraging
[the ServiceAccountToken](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/service-accounts-admin/#bound-service-account-token-volume)
that is mounted in every pod.

## Zone Token

On Universal, a zone proxy proxy must be explicitly configured with a unique
security token (Zone token) with appropriate scope (`egress`, `ingress`), that will be used
to prove its identity.

The zone token used to identify zone proxies is a [JWT token](https://jwt.io)
that contains:
* Zone in which zone proxy operates
* Expiration date of the token (required, 10 years if not specified)
* Scope as a list of items where the token will be valid (required, `egress`, `ingress`
  if not specified)

The zone token is signed by a signing key that is autogenerated during the first
start of the control plane.
Tokens are never stored in the control plane, the only thing that is stored are
signing keys that are used to verify if a token is valid.
The signing key is RSA256 encrypted.

You can check for the signing key:
```sh
kumactl get global-secrets
```
which returns something like:
```
NAME                       AGE
zone-token-signing-key-1   7s
```

### Usage

{% tabs %}
{% tab kumactl %}
```bash
kumactl generate zone-token \
  --zone us-east \
  --scope egress \
  --valid-for 720h > /tmp/kuma-zone-proxy-token
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab REST %}
Generate the token with the REST API:
```bash
curl -XPOST \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"zone": "us-east", "validFor": "720h", "scope": ["egress", "ingress"]}' \
  http://localhost:5681/tokens/zone > /tmp/kuma-zone-proxy-token
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

The token should be stored in a file and then passed when you start `kuma-dp`:
```bash
kuma-dp run \
  --proxy-type=ingress # or egress \
  --dataplane-file=zone-proxy-definition.yaml
  --cp-address=https://127.0.0.1:5678 \
  --dataplane-token-file=/tmp/kuma-zone-proxy-token
```

You can also pass the token as a `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_TOKEN` environment
variable.

### Token Revocation

{{site.mesh_product_name}} does not keep the list of issued tokens. Whenever the single token is
compromised, we can add it to revocation list, so it's no longer valid.

Every token has its own ID which is available in payload under `jti` key.
You can extract ID from token using jwt.io or
[`jwt-cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/jwt-cli) tool.
Here is example of `jti`
```
0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9
```

Specify list of revoked IDs separated by `,` and store it as `GlobalSecret`
named `zone-token-revocations`

{% tabs %}
{% tab Kubernetes %}
```sh
REVOCATIONS=$(echo '0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9' | base64) && echo "apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: zone-token-revocations
  namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
data:
  value: $REVOCATIONS
type: system.kuma.io/global-secret" | kubectl apply -f -
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab Universal %}
```sh
echo "
type: GlobalSecret
name: zone-token-revocations
data: {{ revocations }}" | kumactl apply --var revocations=$(echo '0e120ec9-6b42-495d-9758-07b59fe86fb9' | base64) -f -
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

### Signing key rotation

If the signing key is compromised, we must rotate it and all the tokens that were
signed by it.

1. Generate new signing key
   The signing key is stored as a `GlobalSecret` with a name that looks like
   `zone-token-signing-key-{serialNumber}`.

   Make sure to generate the new signing key with a serial number greater than
   the serial number of the current signing key.

{% capture tabbed_content %}
{% tabs %}
{% tab Kubernetes %}
Check what is the current highest serial number.

```sh
kubectl get secrets -n {{site.mesh_namespace}} --field-selector='type=system.kuma.io/global-secret'
NAME                       TYPE                           DATA   AGE
zone-token-signing-key-1   system.kuma.io/global-secret   1      25m
```

In this case, the highest serial number is `1`. Generate a new signing key
with a serial number of `2`
```sh
TOKEN="$(kumactl generate signing-key)" && echo "
apiVersion: v1
data:
  value: $TOKEN
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: zone-token-signing-key-2
  namespace: {{site.mesh_namespace}}
type: system.kuma.io/global-secret
" | kubectl apply -f -
```

{% endtab %}
{% tab Universal %}
Check what is the current highest serial number.
```sh
kumactl get global-secrets
NAME                       AGE
zone-token-signing-key-1   36m
```

In this case, the highest serial number is `1`. Generate a new signing key
with a serial number of `2`
```sh
echo "
type: GlobalSecret
name: zone-token-signing-key-2
data: {{ key }}" | kumactl apply --var key=$(kumactl generate signing-key) -f -
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
{% endcapture %}
{{ tabbed_content | indent }}

2. Regenerate tokens
   These tokens are automatically created with
   the signing key that’s assigned the highest serial number, so they’re created
   with the new signing key.
   At this point, tokens signed by either new or old signing key are valid.

3. Remove the old signing key
{% capture tabbed_content %}
{% tabs %}
{% tab Kubernetes %}
```sh
kubectl delete secret zone-token-signing-key-1 -n {{site.mesh_namespace}}
```
{% endtab %}
{% tab Universal %}
```sh
kumactl delete global-secret zone-token-signing-key-1
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
All new connections to the control plane now require tokens signed with
the new signing key.
{% endcapture %}
{{ tabbed_content | indent }}



### Offline token issuing

In addition to the regular flow of generating signing keys, storing them in secret, and using them to sign tokens on the control plane, Kuma also offers offline signing of tokens.
In this flow, you can generate a pair of public and private keys and configure the control plane only with public keys for token verification.
You can generate all the tokens without running the control plane.

The advantages of this mode are:
* easier, more reproducible deployments of the control plane, and more in line with GitOps.
* potentially more secure setup, because the control plane does not have access to the private keys.

Here's how to use offline issuing

1. Generate a pair of signing keys

   The following commands generate standard RSA key of 2048 bits and outputs it in PEM-encoded format.
   You can use any external tool to generate a pair of keys.

   ```sh
   kumactl generate signing-key --format=pem > /tmp/key-private.pem
   kumactl generate public-key --signing-key-path=/tmp/key-private.pem > /tmp/key-public.pem
   ```

   The result should be similar to this output
   ```sh
   cat /tmp/key-private.pem /tmp/key-public.pem 
   -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
   MIIEpAIBAAKCAQEAsS61a79gC4mkr2Ltwi09ajakLyUR8YTkJWzZE805EtTkEn/r
   ...
   htKtzsYA7yGlt364IuDybrP+PlPMSK9cQAmWRRZIcBNsKOODkAgKFA==
   -----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
   -----BEGIN RSA PUBLIC KEY-----
   MIIBCgKCAQEAsS61a79gC4mkr2Ltwi09ajakLyUR8YTkJWzZE805EtTkEn/rL2u/
   ...
   se7sx2Pt/NPbWFFTMGVFm3A1ueTUoorW+wIDAQAB
   -----END RSA PUBLIC KEY----- 
   ```

2. Configure the control plane with public key

   [Configure a control plane](/docs/{{ page.release }}/documentation/configuration) with the following settings
   ```yaml
   dpServer:
     authn:
       zoneProxy:
         type: zoneToken
         zoneToken:
           enableIssuer: false # disable control plane token issuer that uses secrets
           validator:
             useSecrets: false # do not use signing key stored in secrets to validate the token
             publicKeys:
             - kid: "key-1"
               key: |
                 -----BEGIN RSA PUBLIC KEY-----
                 MIIBCgKCAQEAsS61a79gC4mkr2Ltwi09ajakLyUR8YTkJWzZE805EtTkEn/rL2u/
                 ...
                 se7sx2Pt/NPbWFFTMGVFm3A1ueTUoorW+wIDAQAB
                 -----END RSA PUBLIC KEY-----
   ```

3. Use the private key to issue tokens offline

   The command is the same as with online signing, but with two additional arguments:
   * `--kid` - ID of the key that should be used to validate the token. This should match `kid` specified in the control plane configuration.
   * `--signing-key-path` - path to a PEM-encoded private key.

   ```sh
   kumactl generate zone-token \
     --zone us-east \
     --scope egress \
     --valid-for 720h \
     --signing-key-path /tmp/key-private.pem \
     --kid key-1
   ```

   You can also use any external system that can issue JWT tokens using `RS256` signing method with the following claims:
   * `Zone` (string) - the name of the zone
   * `Scope` ([]string) - the list of scopes (`egress`, `ingress`)

#### Migration

You can use both offline and online issuing by keeping `dpServer.authn.zoneProxy.zoneToken.enableIssuer` to true.
You can use both secrets and public key static config validators by keeping `dpServer.authn.zoneProxy.zoneToken.validator.useSecrets` to true.

#### Management

Token revocation works the same when using both online and offline issuing.

Signing key rotation works similarly:
* generate another pair of signing keys
* configure a control plane with old and new public keys
* regenerate tokens for all existing zone proxies with the new private key
* remove the old public key from the configuration


### Multi-zone

When running in multi-zone mode, we can generate zone tokens only on the global
control plane. The zone control plane only has a public key of a signing key to verify tokens.

## None
You can turn off authentication by setting `KUMA_DP_SERVER_AUTH_TYPE` to `none`.

{% warning %}
You should not disable authentication between the control plane and
the data plane proxies in production. Disabling means that any data plane proxy
can impersonate any service.
{% endwarning %}
